In the beginning, there was nothing. A vast void of nihility, until a spark. A great ripple was created from this spark, and the waves splashed to release raw magic. This was the most beautiful thing and yet it looked like nothing for no one was there to witness. A rush of sound and color, soon to be lost. Wasted on lack of existence to experience it. That is until the magic itself began to take shape. Raw magic states coalescing into mass. Like nebulas in this void, filling the limitless darkness with wondrous lights. Over millennia they form consciousness, gathering more magic. Forming the titans of creation. These titans created domains, realms, planets, and moons. Filling the void with universes, vast and ever expanding. It soon grew too large, and the Titans began to break apart, their limbs forming new gods. The material realm is started with all gods working together and Chronos shaping time into something all gods could perceive. Though only he could see all of time in its infinite ring looping back upon itself. And for a bit, it was good. 
Until the spin of it all was too much, and all of creation began to rip apart at the seams. More realms were created as a system of checks and balances. Often one was made before its opposite was found out as being needed. Realms are also natural things. Growing and forming on their own. Some with a being over seeing the domain, or the greater gods creating or appointing one. The gods rebuilt the container holding their universes. Finding a stacking order, a way to encase realms, controlling areas with new domains. With these domains came needs for new gods. Chronos has restarted the collective universes 3 times. Each time, the gods came together to continue their system of checks and balances. Each time lasting longer than before but always ending with the destruction of everything. The Great Catastrophe of the 3rd Era reshaped the realms in a new way. While some gods thought a 4th Era should have been started, most saw the change as something worth seeing through. In the cracks of the great Universe Container they saw magical aether seeping in. Growing and changing the space. The void itself was altering their creation. And they wanted to watch it evolve.
It was their creations, the beings living in the material plane that caused the Great Catastrophe. Fascinating to some of these gods that these moral creatures could manipulate the magics and find a way to travel to the different realms. 

Aether is chaos magic, the red residuum. The reason Warforged are alive.
